------Date - 24/03/2026 --------------------------------------
Express 
Express is a minimal and flexible web application framework for node.js
That simplifies the development of web servers and API's
Backend technology

It provide features such as routing, middle ware support, request and response handling, template rendering, REST API creation.

Why express needed even when we have node.js ?
Ans - Node.js is a runtime environment that allows us to run JavaScript on the server, 
      but it does not provide many high-level features for building web applications. for e.g. - Manually handle: routing, requests, responses

      Express.js is a framework built on top of Node.js that simplifies server development by providing features like 
      routing, middleware, and easier request and response handling. It has simple functions like app.get(), app.post()
      
      In short, Node.js provides the base, while Express makes development faster and easier.
      Node js is used in simple application not suitable for the large application then to overcome this express js is used

Why we do not write port number in file why we write it in .env file in company level ?
Ans - In company-level applications, the port number is stored in a .env file instead of 
      hardcoding it in the code to improve flexibility and maintainability.
      1.Flexibility - Different environments need different ports Local → 3000 Production → 80 / 5000 , using environment variables allows changing them without modifying the code.
      2. Centralized Configuration - All important values (port, DB URL, API keys) in one place
      3. Security - Sensitive data is not written in code 👉 .env is not pushed to GitHub
      4. Industry Standard - Companies follow this for clean and scalable projects

Difference between PUT, POST, PATCH ?
Ans - 

To check version of node ---> node -v
1. npm init / npm init -y
2. npm install express
3. create entry file index.js

long form of each command - what is does , what is its work

Express activites
Activity 1 - Difference between package.json and package-lock.json
Activity 2 - Difference between Dev dependencies and dependencies
Activity 3 - routes creation and use js in that
Activity 4 - types of HTTP methods GET, PUT, POST, DELETE

Routing in Express Js :- 
Routing refers to determining how application respond to a client request for specific URL and HTTP methods

Components of routing - URL path, 
   		      - HTTP methods
		      - Handler function

------Lecture Date - 25/03/2026 --------------------
Middleware in Express JS -> Middleware is a function that execute during request before sending the final response
They have access to request , response and next

Flow 
Client ------------> middle ware -----------> server

Real time example - login pages

Middleware activities
Activity 1 - Why we use middleware ?
Activity 2 - What are the types of middleware ?
Activity 3 - What are the benefits of middleware ?
Activity 4 - Where the middleware is used in company level ?

Flow of express
1. import statements 
2. middleware
3. routes
4. port listen code

What are the query parameters ? --MOST IMPORTANT

Query parameter activities
//Activity 1 - detail study about query parameter  
//Activity 2 - 3-4 examples of query parameters 
//Activity 3 - real time use of query parameter